  - Learn how to demo the Emergency Response Demo Application

  - Understand Emergency Response Demo Application Architecture

  - Create Incidents and Responders using the Simulator

  - Examine the Process Flow for assigning Responders to Incidents

  - View Missions in progress with the Dashboard

# Business Case

## The Problem

In August 2017, Hurricane Harvey caused massive flooding in Southeast
Texas, USA. The storm left a number of residents stranded and in need of
rescue. Emergency first responders were overwhelmed with the high volume
of rescue calls. A loose-knit group of volunteer boaters assisted in the
rescue effort. These volunteers explored neighborhoods seeking out
residents who needed assistance. In addition, with the support of social
media, a group of volunteers served as dispatchers to relay rescue
requests to the volunteer boaters. This group of volunteers became known
as the [**Cajun Navy**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cajun_Navy). The
Cajun Navy has been operating in various forms since Hurricane Katrina
in 2005.

![volunteer boaters stock
photo](images/volunteer-boaters-stock-photo.png)

## The Solution

The Emergency Response Demo application is inspired by the Cajun Navy
response from Hurricane Harvey. It provides an online solution to
connect stranded residents with volunteer responders. This application
makes it easy to engage the community to organize volunteer
responders.

![dashboard](images/dashboard.png)

# Terminology

| Name      | Definition                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Incident  | A request for help from an individual (or group of individuals) that are in need of rescue. Details of an Incident include the location (Lat, Long), the number of people stranded and whether medical assistance is required.                                                                                           |
| Responder | A volunteer who has a boat and is willing to rescue people who have reported an Incident. The boat has a capacity and a flag is set if they can/cannot provide first aid. There are two types of responders. People who sign up online via the emergency console and simulated responders via the Responder Simulator.   |
| Mission   | When a Responder is assigned an Incident, a Mission is created. The Mission defines where the Responder needs to go to collect the victims of the Incident (the Way Point) and what shelter the victims should be dropped off at (the Target Location). The mission also has details of the responders location history. |

# Red Hat Technologies

The Emergency Response Demo makes it easy for you to show the power of
the integrated Red Hat Middleware Portfolio, running on OpenShift.

Red Hat Technologies used in this application:

  - [Red Hat
    OpenShift](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift)

  - [Red Hat OpenShift Application Runtimes
    (RHOAR)](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/application-runtimes)
    - Vert.x, Spring Boot and Node.js

  - [Red Hat Data
    Grid](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/jboss-middleware/data-grid)

  - [Red Hat Decision
    Manager](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/jboss-middleware/decision-manager)

  - [Red Hat Process Automation
    Manager](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/jboss-middleware/process-automation-manager)

  - [Red Hat
    Fuse](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/jboss-middleware/fuse)

  - [Red Hat AMQ
    Streams](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/jboss-middleware/amq)

  - [Red Hat 3scale API
    Management](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/jboss-middleware/3scale)

  - [Red Hat Single
    Sign-On](https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-single-sign-on)

# Application Architecture

In this application, youâ€™ll see Red Hat technologies in action and see
how they provide a true hybrid cloud solution, with IT infrastructure
that provides consistency, safety, repeatability, reusability, and
portability while still helping development teams move fast. The
application is based on true polyglot development and it is agile,
secure and scalable at every level in the stack.

Below is a diagram of the application architecture.

![application architecture](images/application-architecture.png)

# Application Components

The following application components work together to provide the core
implementation for the demo solution.

## Mission Service

  - Runtime: Vert.x

  - Middleware Products / Components: JDG, AMQ-Streams

  - Other Components: None

The Mission Service exposes an API for managing Missions, including
getting a list of mission keys, getting a specific mission by key,
clearing all missions and getting missions assigned to a specific
responder.

The Mission Service listens on Kafka to the topic-mission-command topic
for details of new or updated missions being created. New Mission
messages trigger a call to MapBox to generate the routes for a mission,
using the responders location as a starting point, the victims location
as a way point and the shelter location as the final destination. The
mission details are then stored in JDG, to service API requests for
Mission details.

The Mission Service sends updates to Kafka on the topic-mission-event
topic in response to mission state change events such as when a mission
is created, when an API request is received (e.g. to complete all
missions). The Mission service also sends updates to Kafka on the
topic-responder-command when missions are completed to indicate that the
Responder is available for a new mission.

  - Send: topic-mission-event, topic-responder-command

  - Receive: topic-mission-command, topic-responder-location-update

## Process Service

  - Runtime: Spring Boot

  - Middleware Components:
    
      - Process Automation Manager (PAM)
    
      - Decision Manager (DM)

  - Other Components: Postgres DB

The Process Service is responsible for managing the overall process flow
of the system. The Process Service operates purely on Kafka messages and
does not expose any HTTP API - although it does invoke HTTP APIs in the
Responder and Incident Priority Services.

When a new Incident is reported on the topic-incident-event Topic, the
process Service kicks off a new BPM process to manage the new Incident.
When a Responder is shown as available (via the topic-responder-event
Topic), the BPM process is updated to reflect this. As the Mission
progresses and additional messages are received on the
topic-mission-event Topic, the BPM process is updated to reflect the
latest state.

The Process Service sends out multiple types of messages on various
Topics in response to the Incident progressing through the Business
Process.

  - Send: topic-mission-command, topic-responder-command,
    topic-incident-command, topic-incident-event

  - Receive: topic-incident-event, topic-responder-event,
    topic-mission-event

## Incident Service

  - Runtime: Spring Boot

  - Middleware Products / Components: AMQ-Streams

  - Other Components: Postgres DB

The Incident Service exposes an API for registering new Incidents and
retrieving information about existing Incidents. An endpoint is also
exposed for resetting Incident state (this is typically used by
simulator services for managing and resetting the demo).

When a new Incident is received, the Incident details are stored in the
database and a new message is sent out on the topic-incident-event Kafka
Topic.

The Service also listens on Kafka to the topic topic-incident-command
for updates to Incidents and stores the latest Incident state in the
Database.

  - Send: topic-incident-event

  - Listen: topic-incident-command

## Responder Service

  - Runtime: Spring Boot

  - Middleware Products / Components: AMQ-Streams

  - Other Components: Postgres DB

The Responder Service exposes an API for managing Responders, including
registering new Responders, retrieving information about all available
responders and retrieving information about specific responders.
Endpoints are also exposed for removing responders and resetting
responder state (these are typically used by simulator services for
managing and resetting the demo).

When a new Responder is registered, the Responder details are stored in
the database.

The Service also listens on Kafka to the topic test-topic for updates to
Responders and stores the latest Responder state in the Database. If the
update to the responder includes an Incident Id (i.e. if the responder
has been assigned to work on an Incident) the services also sends a new
Kafka message to the topic test-topic.

  - Send: test-topic

  - Listen: test-topic

## Emergency Web Console

  - Runtime: Node.js, Angular

  - Middleware Products / Components: None

The emergency console is the front end UI for the Demo Solution. It
provides the following main views:

  - Incident Commander Dashboard: The overall view of all Incidents,
    Responders and Missions

  - Responder Interface: The view for an individual responder which
    shows their current mission, including the router to the Incident
    and onward route to the shelter

  - Incidents: A tabular list of all incidents

The console communicates with several of the back end services
(Incident, Mission & Responder) to display real time data via
WebSockets.

# Demo Simulators

The following components are used to control the demo and simulate
events which are needed for the demo, but which can not be sourced from
/ represented in the real world (i.e. Incidents, Responder Bots,
Responder movement around the map).

## Responder Simulator

  - Runtime: Vert.x

  - Middleware Components: None

  - Other Components: None

The Responder Simulator is responsible for moving responders (both bots
and humans) around the map during missions. As the demo requires the
movement of personnel to function and since we can not have real people
actually moving many miles for each Mission, this simulator is required
to allow the demo to function.

The Responder simulator listens on the topic-mission-event for details
of active responders that need to be moved on the map. The simulator
them periodically updates (default every 10 seconds) the responders
location (based on the mission route received) to show the responder at
the next location. As the simulator moves responders, it emits messages
on the topic-responder-location-update Topic.

  - Send: topic-mission-event

  - Receive: topic-responder-location-update

## Disaster Simulator

  - Runtime: Vert.x

  - Middleware Components: None

  - Other Components: None

The Disaster Simulator is used for managing / coordinating the demo. It
exposes a basic UI which allows a user to add and remove Incidents and
Responders in order to drive the demo forward.

![create incidents](images/create-incidents.png)

The Disaster Simulator uses HTTP API requests to the Incident Service,
the Responder Service the Mission Service and the Incident Priority
Service in order to manage data creation / deletion.

# View the Emergency Response Demo Web Console

To get started with the Emergency Response Demo, you need the URL to the
demo. You can access the URL from the OpenShift Web Console. Follow the
steps below.

1.  In your terminal window, display the OpenShift Admin Web console
    
        $ echo $OCP_CONSOLE_URL

2.  Start a web browser and visit the URL for `$OCP_CONSOLE_URL`

3.  On the OpenShift login page, enter the following credentials:
    
    1.  Username: `user1`
    
    2.  Password: `r3dh4t1!`

4.  Once logged in, select the project **emergency-response-demo**

5.  In the list of applications, click the link for
    **emergency-console**
    
    ![launch emergency console](images/launch-emergency-console.png)

6.  This link takes you to the login screen for the Emergency Web
    Console
    
    ![emergency console login
    screen](images/emergency-console-login-screen.png)

7.  Click the **Register Now\!** button. This is for registering as a
    volunteer responder.

8.  Enter the relevant information for your account. You can select any
    test data.
    
    1.  Make note of the fields for Boat Capacity and Medical Support.
    
    2.  You can specify how many people you can carry in your boat.
        Also, you can indicate if you provide medical / first-aid
        support.
        
        ![register now responder](images/register-now-responder.png)

9.  Click **Register**

# Explore the Application

Once you are successfully registered, you will see the main application
screen.

![main application screen](images/main-application-screen.png)

  - This screen has the following links:
    
      - **Dashboard**: The overall view of all Incidents, Responders and
        Missions
    
      - **Mission**: The view for an individual responder which shows
        their current mission, including the router to the Incident and
        onward route to the shelter
    
      - **Incidents**: A list of all incidents
    
      - **Github**: Link to the Github repo

## Dashboard

1.  Select the link for **Dashboard**
    
      - This screen shows an overall view of all Incidents, Responders
        and Missions. At the moment the screen is empty, but in the
        following sections we will add data to the application.
        
        ![dashboard empty](images/dashboard-empty.png)

### Incident Status

The Incident Status section tracks the data for number of incidents
requested, assigned, picked up and rescued. These values update in
real-time based on application events.

### Responder Utilization

The Responder Utilization section monitors the total number of
responders, active and idle responders. This section is also updated in
real-time based on application events.

### Map

The map shows the location of the incidents, responders and their
associated routes.

## Mission

When a Responder is assigned an Incident, a Mission is created. The
Mission defines where the Responder needs to go to collect the victims
of the Incident (the Way Point) and what shelter the victims should be
dropped off at (the Target Location). The mission also has details of
the responders location history.

1.  Select the link for **Dashboard**
    
      - This screen shows the view for an individual responder which
        shows their current mission, including the router to the
        Incident and onward route to the shelter.

2.  Add yourself to the map as a responder
    
    1.  Click any location on the map.
        
        ![add as responder to the
        map](images/add-as-responder-to-the-map.png)
    
    2.  Click your boat icon. It will show the details of your boat
        profile.
        
        ![responder boat details](images/responder-boat-details.png)
    
    3.  Click the **Available** button.
        
          - You are now registered as an **Available** responder.

3.  Click the **Dashboard** link
    
      - In the **Responder Utilization** section, verify that there are
        1 total responders. This is based on your recent action.
        
        ![1 total responders](images/1-total-responders.png)

## Incidents

An incident is a request for help from an individual (or group of
individuals) that are in need of rescue. Details of an Incident include
the location (Lat, Long), the number of people stranded and whether
medical assistance is required.

1.  Click the **Incidents** link
    
      - This screen shows a list of incidents. At the moment, this
        screen is empty, but we will create incidents in the next
        section.
        
        ![incidents empty](images/incidents-empty.png)

# Disaster Simulator

1.  Move back to the **OpenShift Web Console** window

2.  In the list of applications, click the link for
    **disaster-simulator**
    
    ![launch disaster simulator](images/launch-disaster-simulator.png)

3.  This takes you to the Disaster Simulator web console.

## Create Incidents

1.  In the section for **Create Incidents**, move to the field for
    **Number of Incidents** and enter `50`.

2.  Click **Submit**
    
    ![create incidents](images/create-incidents.png)

## Create Responders

1.  In the section for **Create Responders**, move to the field for
    **Number of Responders** and enter `3`.

2.  Click **Submit**
    
    ![create responders](images/create-responders.png)

3.  Move back to the **Emergency Response Demo Web Console** window

4.  Click the **Dashboard** link.

5.  Confirm that you have incidents and responders.
    
      - You will see activity as the responders are assigned to
        missions. The responders will start moving to rescue the
        stranded victims.
        
        ![er main dashboard](images/er-main-dashboard.png)

# View Your Mission

By this time, your boat should have been assigned to a mission.

1.  Click the **Mission** link.
    
      - You will see your boat moving towards an incident.
    
      - Once your boat makes it to the incident location, click the
        **Picked Up** button.
    
      - This confirms that you have picked up the passengers and your
        boat will proceed to the shelter.
        
        ![mission picked up](images/mission-picked-up.png)

# View Incidents

You can view a list of all incidents and check their status.

1.  Click the **Incidents** link.
    
    ![view all incidents](images/view-all-incidents.png)

# Process Automation

The Process Service is responsible for managing the overall process flow
of the system. The Process Service operates purely on Kafka messages and
does not expose any HTTP API - although it does invoke HTTP APIs in the
Responder and Incident Priority Services.

When a new Incident is reported on the topic-incident-event Topic, the
process Service kicks off a new BPM process to manage the new Incident.
When a Responder is shown as available (via the topic-responder-event
Topic), the BPM process is updated to reflect this. As the Mission
progresses and additional messages are received on the
topic-mission-event Topic, the BPM process is updated to reflect the
latest state.

The Process Service sends out multiple types of messages on various
Topics in response to the Incident progressing through the Business
Process.

Letâ€™s view the process diagram for an incident.

1.  Click the **Dashboard** link.

2.  Click an Incident on the map.
    
      - This will show a pop-up for the incident.
        
        ![incident popup](images/incident-popup.png)

3.  Click the link for **Process Diagram**
    
      - This will open new tab to view the Process Diagram for this
        incident.
        
        ![view process diagram](images/view-process-diagram.png)

4.  Review the process diagram for this incident.

# Clean Up

Letâ€™s clean up our application by clearing the incidents, responders and
missions.

1.  Move back to the **Disaster Simulator** web console.

2.  Click the buttons to clear application data
    
    1.  Click **Clear incidents**
    
    2.  Click **Clear responders**
    
    3.  Click **Clear missions**
        
        ![clear incidents responders
        missions](images/clear-incidents-responders-missions.png)

3.  Move back to the **Emergency Response Demo Web Console** window

4.  Click the **Dashboard** link.

5.  Confirm that all of application data is cleared.

Congratulations\! You have completed this lab. Please move on to the
next lab.
